

Souper User Manual - version 1.5                                              


                   Souper - transfer mail and news to SOUP

     Souper is a program that transfers mail and news from a POP3 mail server
     and NNTP news server respectively to SOUP packets.  It can also send
     messages in SOUP reply packets.  It runs on OS/2 Warp with the IBM
     Internet Connection for OS/2.

INSTALLATION

     Copy the souper.exe file to a directory in your PATH.

     Edit your \tcpip\etc\services file.  Look for a line beginning with the
     word "pop3".  If the file does not contain such a line, add the line

          pop3             110/tcp

     to the file.

     Souper is designed to work with the IBM Internet Connection for OS/2.  In
     your PPP/SLIP settings notebook, you must fill in the entries for

          Your Host Name:
          Your Domain Name:
          News Server:
          Mail Gateway:
          POP Mail Server:
          Reply Domain:
          Reply (Mail) ID:
          POP Login ID:
          POP Password:

     Ask your Internet service provider for the correct values for these
     settings.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

     You can set these environment variables to change the default behaviour
     of the program.

     HOME      Specifies the user's home directory.  If not set, this defaults
               to the current directory.  The program looks for the newsrc
               file in the home directory.

     NNTPSERVER
               Specify the NNTP news server, overriding the news server given
               in the PPP/SLIP settings notebook.

     MAILER    Specify the command to execute to send mail.  If this is not
               set, then Souper sends the mail directly to the mail server
               specified in the PPP/SLIP settings notebook.

     POSTER    Specify the command to execute to post news.  If this is not
               set, then Souper posts the news directly to the news server
               specified in the PPP/SLIP settings notebook.




                                                                             1



Souper User Manual - version 1.5                                              


CREATE NEWSRC FILE

     Use a text editor to create a file named newsrc in your home directory.
     List the newsgroups you want to transfer, one per line, and end each line
     with a colon.  For example:

          comp.answers:
          news.answers:
          rec.humor.funny:

     The program records the article numbers it has fetched by updating this
     file.

     If you use Yarn, be sure to give Souper a separate newsrc file from the
     one used by Yarn.  The files must be separate and are used for different
     purposes.  The Souper newsrc file records the articles you have
     downloaded from the news server.  The Yarn newsrc file records the
     articles you have read with the Yarn news reader.

CREATE KILL FILE

     A kill file specifies criteria used to kill news articles, that is,
     exclude them from the SOUP packet.  You can kill articles that have a
     specific subject, are from a specific poster, or contain a particular
     string anywhere in the header.

     By default, the program looks for a file named kill in your home
     directory.  An entry in the kill file has the format:

          <newsgroup> {
            <where> <pattern>
            ...
          }

     where

     <newsgroup>
               is the name of the newsgroup in which the search patterns
               apply.  If the name is "all", the search patterns apply in all
               newsgroups.

     <where>   specifies where to search in the article.  "from" searches the
               From line.  "subject" searches the Subject line.  "header"
               searches all lines in the article header.

     <pattern> is the string to search for.  All searches are case-
               insensitive.

     Here is an example kill file:

          all {
            From netkook
          }
          comp.os.os2.advocacy {
            Subject Microsoft
            Subject crash OS/2


                                                                             2



Souper User Manual - version 1.5                                              


          }

     In all newsgroups, articles from netkook are killed.  Also in the
     comp.os.os2.advocacy newsgroup, articles with a Subject containing the
     string "Microsoft" or "crash OS/2" are killed.

OPERATION

     To fetch your mail and news, run the command

          souper

     You can specify a different POP3 mail server than the one specified in
     the PPP/SLIP settings notebook by instead running the command

          souper <mailhost> <userid> <password>

     where

     <mailhost>
               is the name of the host running the POP3 mail server

     <userid>  is your POP3 user ID

     <password>
               is your POP3 password

     If you want to transfer only news, specify the -m option to disable the
     mail transfer.

          souper -m

     If you want to transfer only mail, specify the -n option to disable the
     news transfer.

          souper -n


     The program creates the AREAS and *.MSG files of the SOUP packet in the
     current directory.  Here's a typical batch file designed to import news
     into Yarn:

          cd \temp
          souper
          import -u

     And to export messages from Yarn:

          cd \temp
          unzip -o \home\reply.zip
          del \home\reply.zip
          souper -s






                                                                             3



Souper User Manual - version 1.5                                              


OPTIONS

     The program accepts the following command line options.

     -a        Check for new newsgroups.  If any newgroups were created since
               the last time Souper was run, add the new newsgroups to your
               newsrc file.

     -c n      Catch up news.  Mark every article in every newsgroup as read
               except for the last n articles.

     -h dir    Set home directory.  This option overrides any HOME environment
               setting.  If the HOME environment variable is not set, the
               default is the current directory.

     -i        Do not read the configuration from the IBM Internet Connection
               for OS/2 settings notebook.  If the use this option, you must
               specify the required mail and news host information through the
               command line and environment variables.

     -k n      Set maximum news packet size in Kbytes.  The default is 2048
               Kbytes.  If you set this to 0, the packet size is unlimited.

     -K file   Specify another kill file.  The default is the kill file in the
               home directory.

     -l n      Kill articles that contain more than n lines in the body.

     -m        Do not get mail.

     -n        Do not get news.

     -N file   Specify another newsrc file.  The default is the newsrc file in
               the home directory.

     -r        Set read only mode.  Do not empty your POP3 mailbox or update
               the newsrc file.

     -s        Send replies.  The program expects the SOUP reply files in the
               current directory.

     -u        When fetching news, create SOUP summaries instead of
               transfering entire articles.

     -x        Do not process news Xref headers.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

     This program is derived from popclient by Carl Harris <ceharris@vt.edu>
     and uqwk by Steve Belczyk <seb3@gte.com>.








                                                                             4



Souper User Manual - version 1.5                                              


STANDARD DISCLAIMER

     The author makes no representations about the accuracy or suitability of
     this material for any purpose.  It is provided "as is", without any
     express or implied warranties.  The author will assume no liability for
     damages either from the direct use of this product or as a consequence of
     the use of this product.



















































                                                                             5

